---
tags:
  - Anglais
---
http://www.engeeholidays.com/agra
Since the 17th century, travellers have crossed continents to come and see this ultimate memorial to love, and few have been unmoved by its incomparable beauty.
Taj Mahal stands in the city of Agra, in the northern Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, on the banks of the Yamuna river. It was built in the memory of the beautiful Arjumand Banu Begum, who won the heart of a Mughal prince. She was married at 19 to Emperor Jahangir's third son Prince Khurram and stayed loyally by his side through good times and bad: in the luxurious royal palaces of Agra as well as the transient tents of war camps. In 1627, Khurram became king after a bloody battle of succession; he took the name Shahjahan or King of the World and showered his beloved begum with the highest titles.
She became Mumtaz Mahal, the Exalted of the Palace and Mumtaz-ul-Zamani, the Exalted of the Age. But Mumtaz Mahal was not destined to be queen for long. In 1630, Shahjahan went on an expedition to the South and, as always, Mumtaz Mahal accompanied him. But she died in childbirth at Burhanpur.
She had borne Shahjahan fourteen children, of whom four sons and three daughters survived. When Mumtaz Mahal died, she was just 37 years old. Shahjahan was inconsolable and contemporary chronicles tell of the royal court mourning for two years.
There was no music, no feasting, and no celebration of any kind. Shahjahan, who was a passionate builder, now decided to erect a memorial marble that the world would never forget. The site selected for the tomb was a garden by the Yamuna river, unshadowed by any other structure. [...]. The site was also chosen because it was located on a bend in the river, and so could be seen from Shahjahan's personal palace in Agra Fort, further upstream.
[-] The construction of Taj Mahal was started in 1631 and completed at the end of 1653.
For twenty-two years, twenty thousand workmen are said to be employed on it daily, for their accommodation a small town, named after the deceased empress- Mumtazabad, now known as Taj Ganj, was built adjacent to it. [...] The material was brought in from all over India and central Asia and it took a fleet of 1000 elephants to transport it to the site.
Red sandstone was brought from Fatehpur Sikri, Jasper from Punjab, Jade and Crystal from China, Turquoise from Tibet, Lapis Lazuli and Sapphire from Sri Lanka, Coal and Cornelian from Arabia and diamonds from Panna. In all 28 kind of rare, semi precious and precious stones were used for inlay work in the Taj Mahal. The chief building material, the white marble was brought from
quarries
Makrana,
in Rajasthan.
the of http://www.engeeholidays.com/agra_tajmahal_tours.html.  
   
   
After hour of aimless exploration, I notice a group of prosperous Western tourists armed with camcorders and binoculars, listening intently to an elderly guide at the base of the dome. I join them discreetly. The guide is pointing towards the <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">marble dome</mark> and speaking in a rasping voice. I have explained to you the architectural features of the redsandstone forecourt, the Chowk-i Jilo Khana, which we have just passed. Now I will tell you a little bit about the history of the Taj Mahal.
'One day in the year <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">1607</mark>, Prince Khurram of the royal Mughal household was strolling down Delhi's Meena Bazaar when he caught a glimpse of <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">a girl selling silk and glass beads</mark> in a small booth. He was so entranced by her beauty that he fell in love with her then and there. But <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">it took five years before he was finally able to marry this girl</mark>. <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">Her real name was Arjuman Banu</mark>, <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">but he gave her the new name of Mumtaz Mahal</mark>. <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">She was nineteen</mark> at the time and he was twenty. <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">Mumtaz Begum was the niece of Noorjahan or Mehrunnisa, the wife of Jahangir, who in turn was a niece of Akbar's Persian queen, Bilgis Begum</mark>. <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">Mumtaz and Khurram were married in the year 1612</mark>, <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">and over the next eighteen years</mark> <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">had fourteen children together</mark>. <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">Mumtaz was her husband's inseparable companion on all his journeys and military expeditions</mark>. She was his comrade, his counsellor, and inspired him to acts of charity and benevolence towards the weak and the needy. <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">She died in childbirth on the seventh of June 1630 in Burhanpur</mark>, only three years after Khurram ascended the Mughal throne as Emperor Shahjahan. It was when Mumtaz Mahal lay dying that <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">she extracted four promises from the Emperor</mark>: first, that he erect a monument to match her beauty; <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">second, that he should not marry again</mark>; third, that <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">he be kind to their children</mark>; and fourth, that he visit the tomb on the anniversary of her death. <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">Mumtaz's death left the Emperor so heartbroken</mark> that <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">his hair is said to have turned grey overnight</mark>. <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">But so great was the Emperor's love for his wife that he ordered the building of the most beautiful mausoleum on earth for her</mark>. Work started in 1631. It took twenty-two years and the combined effort of over <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">twenty thousand artisans and master craftsmen</mark> from Persia, the Ottoman Empire, and even Europe, and the result is what you see before you, the <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">Taj Mahal, described by Rabindranath Tagore as "a teardrop on the cheek of time"</mark>.
A young girl in hot pants raises her hand. 'Excuse me, who is Tagore?' 'Oh, he was a very famous Indian poet who won the Nobel Prize. He can be compared to, let's say, William Wordsworth, the guide answers..
'William who?'
'Never mind. Now, as I was saying, the architectural complex of the Taj Mahal is comprised of <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">five main elements</mark>: the <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">Darwaza</mark> or main gateway, the <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">Bageecha</mark> or garden, the <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">Masjid</mark> or mosque, the <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">Naqqar Khana</mark> or rest house, and the Rauza or the main mausoleum. The actual tomb is situated inside the Taj, which we will see in a minute. There I will show you the n<mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">inety-nine names of Allah on Mumtaz's tomb, and the pen box set into Shah Jahan's tomb</mark>, which is the distinguishing feature of a male ruler. These cenotaphs, in accordance with Mughul tradition, are only representations of the real coffins, which lie in the same positions in an unadorned and humid underground crypt. The mausoleum is <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">57 metres square</mark> in plan. The central inner dome is 24.5 metres high and 17.7 metres in diameter, and it is surmounted by an outer shell nearly 61 metres in height. The minarets on all four sides are 40 metres high. You will see how sophisticated the artwork of the time was, because even a 3-centimetre decorative element contains more than 50 inlaid gemstones. Also notice that the lettering of the Quranic verses around the archways appears to be uniform, regardless of their height.  


This document is an excerpt from the book "Slumdog Millionaire" on which the movie is based.  
The little boy who has listened to professional guide is now acting as a real guide who presents the history of the Taj Mahal. The Western tourists are really naive and gullible despite all the mistakes the boy makes !
